Product, so we've talked a lot about
everything around being a product manager,
how to be an effective product manager.
Now, I'm actually gonna talk
about the product portion of it.
As you can see,
a lot of product management, I don't know,
25% of it is actually the product, and
75% about it is talking about the product.
It's just the nature of moving
organizations together.
And if you're at a startup,
it might be the opposite way.
It's probably 75% product and
25% getting people on the same page.
You can see that I'm very colored by
the perspective of working in large
corporations, where most of
my job is just communicating.
But I think this is the fun part.
It's also the most intuitive part.
I imagine many of you as engineers,
QA engineers, designers, project managers,
operations people, all those kind of
people, you probably have a strong
sense of your product or product senses
as the industry likes to call it.
And so I don't wanna spend a bunch of time
trying to explain to you to have product
sense when most of you probably
are into a lot of this stuff.
Also, I just wouldn't know how to
explain it to you as well, right?
But let me give you some of my processes
that I use to get to good product.
So the first one is user stories.
And I used to kinda hate this term,
but now, I realize that I use it
everywhere in my head, and so
it actually is a pretty useful thing.
So this is forcing you to flip the way
that you're thinking about a product.
Rather than saying,
as a product manager at Microsoft,
I want you to use Office,
right, that's my user story.
That's very based on me and
my company, and
it's not at all how you
should be a product manager.
You should be thinking about
this as a professional,
I need to write memos, right?
And you think about it, I'm a user,
I'm a particular type of persona, and
I have this particular type of problem.
That is a user story.
It typically comes in the shape of,
as a blank, I need to blank, right?
When you're starting to write
product specs, or tasks, or
whatever you wanna think about,
write down your user stories first.
If you write down your user story first,
that forces you to be grounded
in a user's perspective.
And instead of trying to seek, what am
I trying to get you to do, you will
think about it as, what can I do so
that my user can accomplish their intent?
I think you'll end up with
a much better product.
So as much as you can specify what
type of user they are, a customer,
a shopper, an admin, a moderator,
an athlete, a chef, whatever, right?
As a student of Frontend Masters, I wanna
learn how to be a better developer, right?
Or as just someone that's
learning in the industry, right,
I wanna learn how to be
a better Frontend developer,
would be a kind of a higher level of
Frontend Masters user story, for example.
So and again,
I'm just gonna invite you to be careful
that these are just not reframing.
Don't work backwards from
what you want them to do.
I'm exactly trying to get you
to work forwards, not backwards.
So as a worker with frequent users,
I want to be able to use
the metaverse to take meetings.
I feel like that's the user story
behind Facebook's metaverse.
They have this thing,
the metaverse, and they're trying
to work you into being in
the metaverse instead of thinking
about our users have a problem and
the metaverse solves that, right?
So yeah, as a worker who takes frequent
meetings, I want to have a more personal
experience with my co-workers
despite a remote culture.
Would probably be a closer user
story that might be better for
Facebook, I don't know.
As you can see,
I'm not a big fan of the metaverse.
[LAUGH] So
think about that story a little bit.
As a worker who takes frequent meetings,
I want to have a more personal experience
with my co-workers
despite a remote culture.
One, do you think that's true?
Do you think that everyone wants
to have personal experiences
with their co-workers?
I'm gonna say, not everybody.
Some people do, some people won't.
The question is what's the mix of that?
So as a product manager,
it forces you to go and
then figure out how true
is this user story?
I'm perfectly happy having a professional
relationship over Zoom, and
I don't need anything more professional
than that or more personal than that, so.
And I don't think the metaverse
solves that, personally.
But that's my biggest criticism of
the metaverse is it feels like a product
in search for a problem to solve,
as opposed to here's a problem and
we made a product to solve that problem.
Do we see kinda see why I like
phrasing things as user stories?
It forces you to make a true,
false statements that I can prove
users do have this problem.
Users don't have this problem,
but in any case,
I'm very user grounded in things
that I end up thinking about.
Your users can be internal, by the way.
If I'm an infrastructure team,
as a product engineer,
I want to be able to deploy my
infrastructure faster, right?
And then you can go talk to your
product engineers like, hey,
do you wanna deploy your stuff faster?
Of course, they're gonna say that,
but how much of a problem is that for
you is probably a better
way to phrase that.
Yeah, we as product managers, as you may
or may not believe, are mere mortals and
we don't have all the answers.
We frequently make guesses and
they're wrong.
And we make bets that don't come
up the way that we want them to.
Our product sense, right,
can intuit some of the answers, but
a lot of them we're gonna get wrong.
That's why it's good to
phrase these things upfront,
write down all of our assumptions about
our users and the problems they have,
and then go validate that.
So put enter research.
Once you have all of your user stories
written down, my user has this problem or
it's like, as this user,
I have this problem, as this user,
I have this problem.
This is where you wanna go talk to
your users and figure out like, hey,
I think you have this problem.
Do you have this problem?
And actually, the better way
to phrase that is, hey, user,
what kind of problems do you have?
And what would you expect a problem to do?
And then see if your guesses line
up with what your users say.
Cuz typically, if you say, hey,
user, do you want free thing?
And they'll say, hey, product manager,
give me free thing and then later,
they'll just never use it.
One thing you need to do when you have
all of your user stories written down as
a Nike user, I'm not finding
all of my products that I want.
So I would need to be, or I want to be
recommended products to buy, I don't know,
that might not be true.
But actually, the problem would probably
be a pretty good one to research, right?
So there's your user study or user story,
and then you should go do some sort of
study to figure out if that's true, and
there's a bunch of ways to validate this.
You can just do kind of passive ways
of look at forums like Reddit, Twitter,
all of those, Stack Overflow,
if you're doing technical stuff.
Wherever your users congregate,
go look there and
read a bunch of the posts,
see if those are coming up.
You could make your own posts like, hey,
I'm a PM at Nike,
what do you think about this?
We at Streamlit have forums,
which is super useful.
We just pop in there and say,
hey, Streamlit forum users,
what do you think about
something like this?
And we will get very strong
feedback of like, that's very dumb,
you shouldn't do that, or that's great,
we would actually use that.
A word of caution, UX research is an art.
And there's a reason why
it's a whole degree for
someone to go get a research
kind of background.
Because if you phrase
questions the wrong way,
you strongly bias your answers, right?
So if I say, hey, if I did this for
you, would it solve your problem?
A lot of times, no matter what this is,
people are like, yeah,
if you do something for me, I like that,
so therefore, yes, do that for me.
And you'll bias your results
towards what you're asking.
It's much better to phrase those questions
of what problems do you have, and
how do you currently solve them?
And what do you wish you
had to solve them, right?
So that you're letting the user kind
of come up with their own answers and
see if it correlates to what you're doing.
Go all the way down that pathway, and then
kind off lightly lead them into, well,
what about a solution similar to this, so
you can kind of get a more direct answer.
I'm not the best at it.
I always work with a UX researcher
whenever I'm doing any of these things.
So just be cautious that
phrasing becomes critical
on the surveys and
on forum posts and in interviews.
So before you get too far
into your user stories,
validate the problem,
validate the solution.
And then, you come up with
an experiment that you can run, right?
So let's say you've validated that,
now you have a user study.
And you'll come up with 30 user studies,
or sorry, user studies,
I keep saying studies, user stories.
At this point,
which of them do you work on?
Well, this is an exercise
in prioritization, and
there's a whole section on it coming
in here in just a little bit.
So hold on that thought for just a second.
Generally, when I have a validated
user story, I will generally try and
turn that into some sort of product spec.
Even if I'm not going to immediately work
on it, even if it's just kind of a bare
bones product spec, but I'll say,
we validated this problem,
we validated a solution to it, and
we have this hypothesis about this.
That if we do this,
that we will solve this problem, or
improve this metric, or capture this
kind of user, those kinds of things.
Those product specs become useful even
if you don't work on them right away.
They are like,
you'll get two quarters down the line and
you'll realize,
this is actually a much bigger problem.
Good thing we already did
a bunch of research on this and
we already have a bare bones starter spec
for this, you kind of save that knowledge.
So in any case, keep your users in mind,
that's my plea to you.
I think that makes
the best product manager.
I think that alone will give you a leg
up on a lot of other products managers.
I do think your product specs and
your tasks that you're gonna work on for
a quarter, or whatever your unit of
work is, should typically either be
backed one to one with a user story, or
at least ladder up into a user story
that you have acknowledged as
a company that is important to you.
Your product should solve problems.
I think, that's basically what I'm saying.
So when you're validating feedback and
turning that into a user story,
be careful about phrasing your
user stories with solutions.
And I'm trying to think of
a good example of a way for me,
as a power user, I want this feature,
it's a bad user story.
What you should look to is,
why do they want that feature?
What problem are they
solving with feature, right?
What you wanna phrase that user story as
is, a power user, I have this problem.
And then your solution is the proposed,
I want this feature, but
you should also look at the other
features in there as well.
When they're telling you, I want feature,
what they're telling you
is I have problem, right?
And you wanna get to
the core of the problem, and
then you wanna look at
all of the solutions.
This has happened to me a lot in VS Code,
because you have a lot of very
different personas using VS Code.
You have everyone from accountants
to English teachers to developers,
they're all using VS Code,
because it's a very useful tool.
And they will tell you,
I want this because Excel has it.
It's like, no, you actually just want to,
you don't wanna have some fancy
CSV processing,
you just wanna get to Excel, right?
And so when we build all these CSV
things for them, they're like, well,
this is dumb, why would I stay in VS?
Because I don't know,
you asked for it, right?
It's like, well, I actually just
wanted to get this into Excel.
It's like,
why didn't you tell me that, right?
And so when we made an Explore to
Excel button, all of a sudden,
all of that feedback just went away.
So listen to your users and
be very judicious of how you
interpret their feedback,
because they will tell you
things that's actually not true.
But there's always a core of it,
there's always a reason why
they're telling you that thing.
In which case it's like, I have a problem
and they think they know the answer,
when in reality they have no more ability
to solve their problem than you do, right?